src/dua_app_management/README.md, before:

# dua_app_management

Collection of software modules and source files for the management of applications and processes in the Distributed Unified Architecture.

## Contents

This package contains modules, both compiled and source-only, to be included in DUA-based projects. It is particularly aimed at the development of ROS 2 applications, with the aim of easing some common tasks and code writing that is often repeated, or involves tinkering with the OS to do simple things.

### ros2_app_manager

Header-only library that implements a wrapper object for the usual `main` thread code of ROS 2 applications, *i.e.*, processes that run single nodes or collections thereof not as components.

The `main` thread of a ROS 2 app should mostly contain calls to the following methods of the `ROS2AppManager` object, which summarize the lifecycle of a ROS 2 process:

- Constructor, to initialize the process, configure I/O and create ROS 2 objects.
- `ROS2AppManager::run` to spin the executor (note that this does not return unless a signal is caught).
- `ROS2AppManager::shutdown` to shutdown the ROS 2 application by deleting its objects.

There are also getters to access the ROS 2 objects, such as the node, the executor and the context.

### ros2_signal_handler

POSIX-compliant signal handler module for ROS 2 applications.

**The main motivation behind this is that `rclcpp::init` installs its own signal handler, thus overriding any other termination procedure you might need.**

Can be used by any ROS 2 standalone application but also by component managers, and allows to define custom behaviours upon process termination.

This also adds support for initialization of custom ROS 2 contexts, uses `sigaction` to manage handlers. You can also provide a pointer to an `rclcpp::Executor` to be canceled when any of the traced signal is received, or not provide it and manage it inside one of your custom handlers.

This module is made of a single header only: `signal_handler.hpp`, so to access its functions you just need to include that.

All operations are performed by a `ROS2SignalHandler::SignalHandler` object; to use it, interface it with the following public methods:

- `SignalHandler::init` to initialize it;
- `SignalHandler::install` to install a new signal handler for a given signal;
- `SignalHandler::uninstall` to uninstall a previously-installed signal handler;
- `SignalHandler::ignore` to ignore a specific signal;
- `SignalHandler::fini` to reset the `SignalHandler` object and restore everything to default settings and behaviours.

Routines may throw `std` exceptions upon error.

Refer to code comments for specific API documentation.

## Requirements

Builds on ROS 2 Humble Hawksbill.

See [`package.xml`](package.xml) for more information.

---

## License

This work is licensed under the GNU General Public License v3.0. See the [`LICENSE`](LICENSE) file for details.

## Copyright

Copyright (c) 2023, Intelligent Systems Lab, University of Rome Tor Vergata

Commit message:

feat: DUA App Management: dua_component_container_mt

src/dua_app_management/README.md, after:

# dua_app_management

Collection of software modules and source files for the management of applications and processes in the Distributed Unified Architecture.

## Contents

This package contains modules, both compiled and source-only, to be included in DUA-based projects. It is particularly aimed at the development of ROS 2 applications, with the aim of easing some common tasks and code writing that is often repeated, or involves tinkering with the OS to do simple things.

### ros2_app_manager

This library is made of two parts.

#### ROS2AppManager

Header-only library that implements a wrapper object for the usual `main` thread code of ROS 2 applications, *i.e.*, processes that run single nodes or collections thereof not as components.

The `main` thread of a ROS 2 app should mostly contain calls to the following methods of the `ROS2AppManager` object, which summarize the lifecycle of a ROS 2 process:

- Constructor, to initialize the process, configure I/O and create ROS 2 objects.
- `ROS2AppManager::run` to spin the executor (note that this does not return unless a signal is caught).
- `ROS2AppManager::shutdown` to shutdown the ROS 2 application by deleting its objects.

There are also getters to access the ROS 2 objects, such as the node, the executor and the context.

#### `dua_component_container_mt`

Revised version of the `rclcpp`'s `component_container_mt` container process, which makes use of the tools in this package to robustify the process and make it more flexible: it is entirely built around the `MultiThreadedExecutor` ROS 2 executor for maximum performance, and it traces signals and allows to use `SIGUSR1` and `SIGUSR2` to interrupt threads without terminating the process.

### ros2_signal_handler

POSIX-compliant signal handler module for ROS 2 applications.

**The main motivation behind this is that `rclcpp::init` installs its own signal handler, thus overriding any other termination procedure you might need.**

Can be used by any ROS 2 standalone application but also by component managers, and allows to define custom behaviours upon process termination.

This also adds support for initialization of custom ROS 2 contexts, uses `sigaction` to manage handlers. You can also provide a pointer to an `rclcpp::Executor` to be canceled when any of the traced signal is received, or not provide it and manage it inside one of your custom handlers.

This module is made of a single header only: `signal_handler.hpp`, so to access its functions you just need to include that.

All operations are performed by a `ROS2SignalHandler::SignalHandler` object; to use it, interface it with the following public methods:

- `SignalHandler::init` to initialize it;
- `SignalHandler::install` to install a new signal handler for a given signal;
- `SignalHandler::uninstall` to uninstall a previously-installed signal handler;
- `SignalHandler::ignore` to ignore a specific signal;
- `SignalHandler::fini` to reset the `SignalHandler` object and restore everything to default settings and behaviours.

Routines may throw `std` exceptions upon error.

Refer to code comments for specific API documentation.

## Requirements

Builds on ROS 2 Humble Hawksbill.

See [`package.xml`](package.xml) for more information.

---

## License

This work is licensed under the GNU General Public License v3.0. See the [`LICENSE`](LICENSE) file for details.

## Copyright

Copyright (c) 2023, Intelligent Systems Lab, University of Rome Tor Vergata
