src/dua_qos/README.md, before:

# dua_qos

Collection of getter functions that return common ROS 2 Quality of Service (QoS) profiles for DUA modules.

## Contents

This library, meant to be *shared* so that multiple DUA modules can link against it, contains many different QoS profile getters. Such profiles are intended for **topics**, since services and actions have their own QoS profiles; those could be modified too, but handling the many different possible repercussions of such a change on their client-server, stateful communications is beyond the scope of this library.

Topics are divided into two categories, which correspond to the two main types of transmission in a ROS 2 network and to two distinct namespaces in the library:

- **Data topics**, which are critical for the correct functioning of the system and are intended to be used for the transmission of data. They correspond to the `DUAQoS` namespace.
- **Visualization topics**, which are not critical at all and are only intended to be used for inspection purposes, by tools such as RViz 2. They correspond to the `DUAQoS::Visualization` namespace.

The contents of each namespace are described below. Each getter takes an additional argument which is the *depth* of the QoS profile, *i.e.*, the maximum number of samples that can be stored in the history of the topic. This is useful to avoid memory leaks in case of a slow consumer, but it is not always necessary to set it to a value greater than 1. There are default values, which are suggested in most situations.

### `DUAQoS`

- `get_datum_qos`: Returns a QoS profile for a data topic that is critical for the correct functioning of the system, so reliable by default.
- `get_command_qos`: Returns a QoS profile for a command topic that is critical for the correct functioning of the system, so reliable by default.
- `get_scan_qos`: Returns a QoS profile for a spatial scan topic, *e.g.*, laser scan, pointcloud, or map, that must be reliable but with a low depth because of their potential size.
- `get_image_qos`: Returns a QoS profile for an image topic, *e.g.*, camera image, that must be best-effort because image transmission is very bandwidth-intensive and could clog a DDS network.

### `DUAQoS::Visualization`

These getters all have a best-effort reliability policy, since visualization topics are not critical for the correct functioning of the system and their loss should not be a problem, whereas they should not take up too much bandwidth.

- `get_datum_qos`: Returns a QoS profile for a data topic.
- `get_command_qos`: Returns a QoS profile for a command topic.
- `get_scan_qos`: Returns a QoS profile for a spatial scan topic, *e.g.*, laser scan, pointcloud, or map.
- `get_image_qos`: Returns a QoS profile for an image topic, *e.g.*, camera image.

---

## License

This work is licensed under the GNU General Public License v3.0. See the [`LICENSE`](LICENSE) file for details.

## Copyright

Copyright (c) 2023, Intelligent Systems Lab, University of Rome Tor Vergata

Commit message:

feat: dua_qos: get_action_server/client_options
@lorenzo-bianchi @alessandrotenaglia @giorgiomanca97
So, when you create an action server/client, you usually want to specify a callback group for it.
Because of the APIs' signature, if you want to specify a callback group, you also have to specify server/client options.
Server/client options are largely made of QoS profiles which we should never modify, which means... boilerplate code!
This eliminates the need to copy and paste stuff everywhere. Just pass the result of a get_*() call to the create_* function.

src/dua_qos/README.md, after:

# dua_qos

Collection of getter functions that return common ROS 2 Quality of Service (QoS) profiles for DUA modules.

## Contents

This library, meant to be *shared* so that multiple DUA modules can link against it, contains many different QoS profile getters. Such profiles are intended for **topics**, since services and actions have their own QoS profiles; those could be modified too, but handling the many different possible repercussions of such a change on their client-server, stateful communications is beyond the scope of this library.

Topics are divided into two categories, which correspond to the two main types of transmission in a ROS 2 network and to two distinct namespaces in the library:

- **Data topics**, which are critical for the correct functioning of the system and are intended to be used for the transmission of data. They correspond to the `DUAQoS` namespace.
- **Visualization topics**, which are not critical at all and are only intended to be used for inspection purposes, by tools such as RViz 2. They correspond to the `DUAQoS::Visualization` namespace.

The contents of each namespace are described below. Each getter takes an additional argument which is the *depth* of the QoS profile, *i.e.*, the maximum number of samples that can be stored in the history of the topic. This is useful to avoid memory leaks in case of a slow consumer, but it is not always necessary to set it to a value greater than 1. There are default values, which are suggested in most situations.

### `DUAQoS`

- `get_datum_qos`: Returns a QoS profile for a data topic that is critical for the correct functioning of the system, so reliable by default.
- `get_command_qos`: Returns a QoS profile for a command topic that is critical for the correct functioning of the system, so reliable by default.
- `get_scan_qos`: Returns a QoS profile for a spatial scan topic, *e.g.*, laser scan, pointcloud, or map, that must be reliable but with a low depth because of their potential size.
- `get_image_qos`: Returns a QoS profile for an image topic, *e.g.*, camera image, that must be best-effort because image transmission is very bandwidth-intensive and could clog a DDS network.
- `get_action_server_options`: Returns an options structure for an action server, which is largely made of QoS profiles.
- `get_action_client_options`: Returns an options structure for an action client, which is largely made of QoS profiles.

### `DUAQoS::Visualization`

These getters all have a best-effort reliability policy, since visualization topics are not critical for the correct functioning of the system and their loss should not be a problem, whereas they should not take up too much bandwidth.

- `get_datum_qos`: Returns a QoS profile for a data topic.
- `get_command_qos`: Returns a QoS profile for a command topic.
- `get_scan_qos`: Returns a QoS profile for a spatial scan topic, *e.g.*, laser scan, pointcloud, or map.
- `get_image_qos`: Returns a QoS profile for an image topic, *e.g.*, camera image.

---

## License

This work is licensed under the GNU General Public License v3.0. See the [`LICENSE`](LICENSE) file for details.

## Copyright

Copyright (c) 2023, Intelligent Systems Lab, University of Rome Tor Vergata
