src/params_manager/README.md, before:

# params_manager

Library to easily manage ROS 2 node parameters through the `rclcpp` C++ API.

## Contents

If you tried to declare, set, and overall manage a node parameter using the full capabilities of the `rclcpp` API, you know it can be a bit of a pain. This library aims to ease the process by providing a simple interface to do so.

The main problem of the `rclcpp` is the vast amount of boilerplate code required to declare a parameter, and check its updates during the `on_set_parameters_callback` if required. This library offers an interface to automate all steps, while still provide means to customize the behaviour of the node when the parameter is updated.

## Limitations

- Dynamic parameters, *i.e.*, parameters with dynamic typing, are not supported by design.
- The `PManager` class also supports the `BYTE_ARRAY` parameter type, but dynamic code generation for it is not supported.

## Usage

Two sets of operations must be performed to implement node parameters for a node using this library: writing a few lines of code in your node class to use it, and setting up information to automatically generate code to declare the parameters with it.

### Modifying the node

First, you must import the library in your node class, including the `params_manager.hpp` header file. Then you must declare a `PManager` object in your node class, and initialize it in the constructor, passing to it:

- the pointer to the node object that manages the `PManager`;
- a boolean flag that activates verbose logs upon events such as parameter updates.

Keep in mind the name that you give to this object.

Second, you must define the following function as a member of your node class:

```cpp
void init_parameters();
```

and call it in the constructor, better if it's the first thing being done after the `PManager` object is initialized.

In case you want to perform a specific action when a specific parameter is updated, you must define a function member (*validator*) for your node with the following signature:

```cpp
bool your_validator(const rclcpp::Parameter &);
```

that has to return `true` if the parameter is valid, `false` otherwise. The library approves a parameter update only if all the validators of the parameters involved in the update, if present, return `true`.

### Setting up code generation

The `params_manager` library comes with a Python script that can be used to automatically generate code to declare the parameters in your node class. This will be automatically called by a CMake directive that extends the `ament` installation.

First, you have to add a YAML file to the source code of your node, something like the following `params.yaml`:

```yaml
header_include_path: dir/node_header.hpp
namespace: NodeNamespace # This is optional
manager_name: pmanager # This is optional
node_class_name: MyNode

params:
  camera_offset:
    type: double
    default_value: 0.1
    min_value: 0.0
    max_value: 0.5
    step: 0.0
    description: "Distance between camera and drone center"
    constraints: "Can be zero, must be in meters"
    read_only: false
    validator: function_name3 # This is optional

  hsv_from:
    type: integer_array
    default_value:
      - 0
      - 1
    min_value: 0
    max_value: 255
    step: 1
    description: "HSV color lower range"
    constraints: "Can be changed"
    read_only: false
    validator: function_name2 # This is optional

  pub_cv_images:
    type: bool
    default_value: true
    description: "Activates publishers to CV images topic"
    constraints: "Only for testing"
    read_only: true
    validator: function_name1 # This is optional

  area_thr:
    type: integer
    default_value: 5000
    min_value: 1000
    max_value: 300000
    step: 1
    description: "Area threshold"
    constraints: "Cannot be zero"
    read_only: false
    validator: function_name7 # This is optional

  covariances:
    type: double_array
    default_value:
      - 0.0
      - 1.0
      - 2.0
    min_value: 0.0
    max_value: 1000.0
    step: 0.0
    description: "Covariance matrix"
    constraints: "Cannot be changed"
    read_only: true
    validator: function_name6 # This is optional

  bottom_camera_topic_name:
    type: string
    default_value: /usb_camera_driver/bottom_camera/image_rect_color
    description: "Bottom camera topic name"
    constraints: "Cannot be changed"
    read_only: true

  names:
    type: string_array
    default_value:
      - prova1
      - prova2
      - prova3
    description: "Names list"
    constraints: "Cannot be changed"
    read_only: true
    validator: function_name99 # This is optional

  bools:
    type: bool_array
    default_value:
      - true
      - false
      - false
    description: "Bool matrix"
    constraints: "Cannot be changed"
    read_only: true
    validator: function_name # This is optional
```

Only fields marked with appropriate comments in the above examples are optional, the rest are mandatory; in particular, each parameter must have a `type` and a `default_value` field, plus other mandatory field that depend on the parameter type. Note that validator routine names, which can optionally be specified for each parameter, must match those that you may have defined as instructed in [Modifying the node](#modifying-the-node). The `manager_name` value must also match the name you gave to the `PManager` object in your node class, and it defaults to `pmanager_`.

The idea is that this file is going to be used by a script to automatically generate code that calls various instances of the `declare_*_parameter` from the `rclcpp` API, which constitute much of the otherwise unavoidable boilerplate code. To do so, add the following lines to your `CMakeLists.txt` file:

```cmake
# Generate parameters source code
generate_init_parameters(
  YAML_FILE "path/to/your/params.yaml"
  OUT_FILE "path/to/init_parameters.cpp")
```

which will generate an `init_parameters.cpp` file in the specified path; you must add that file to the source files of your node targets, and CMake will do the rest.

---

## License

This work is licensed under the GNU General Public License v3.0. See the [`LICENSE`](LICENSE) file for details.

## Copyright

Copyright (c) 2023, Intelligent Systems Lab, University of Rome Tor Vergata

Commit message:

feat: var_name
@lorenzo-bianchi @giorgiomanca97 @alessandrotenaglia
Additional field in the params.yaml: name of a class member variable that will be updated automatically through some pointer magic.
Means: 90% of validators are gone.

src/params_manager/README.md, after:

# params_manager

Library to easily manage ROS 2 node parameters through the `rclcpp` C++ API.

## Contents

If you tried to declare, set, and overall manage a node parameter using the full capabilities of the `rclcpp` API, you know it can be a bit of a pain. This library aims to ease the process by providing a simple interface to do so.

The main problem of the `rclcpp` is the vast amount of boilerplate code required to declare a parameter, and check its updates during the `on_set_parameters_callback` if required. This library offers an interface to automate all steps, while still provide means to customize the behaviour of the node when the parameter is updated.

## Limitations

- Dynamic parameters, *i.e.*, parameters with dynamic typing, are not supported by design.
- The `PManager` class also supports the `BYTE_ARRAY` parameter type, but dynamic code generation for it is not supported.

## Usage

Two sets of operations must be performed to implement node parameters for a node using this library: writing a few lines of code in your node class to use it, and setting up information to automatically generate code to declare the parameters with it.

### Modifying the node

First, you must import the library in your node class, including the `params_manager.hpp` header file. Then you must declare a `PManager` object in your node class, and initialize it in the constructor, passing to it:

- the pointer to the node object that manages the `PManager`;
- a boolean flag that activates verbose logs upon events such as parameter updates.

Keep in mind the name that you give to this object.

Second, you must define the following function as a member of your node class:

```cpp
void init_parameters();
```

and call it in the constructor, better if it's the first thing being done after the `PManager` object is initialized.

In case you want to perform a specific action when a specific parameter is updated, you must define a function member (*validator*) for your node with the following signature:

```cpp
bool your_validator(const rclcpp::Parameter &);
```

that has to return `true` if the parameter is valid, `false` otherwise. The library approves a parameter update only if all the validators of the parameters involved in the update, if present, return `true`.

### Setting up code generation

The `params_manager` library comes with a Python script that can be used to automatically generate code to declare the parameters in your node class. This will be automatically called by a CMake directive that extends the `ament` installation.

First, you have to add a YAML file to the source code of your node, something like the following `params.yaml`:

```yaml
header_include_path: dir/node_header.hpp
namespace: NodeNamespace # This is optional
manager_name: pmanager # This is optional
node_class_name: MyNode

params:
  camera_offset:
    type: double
    default_value: 0.1
    min_value: 0.0
    max_value: 0.5
    step: 0.0
    description: "Distance between camera and drone center"
    constraints: "Can be zero, must be in meters"
    read_only: false
    validator: function_name3 # This is optional

  hsv_from:
    type: integer_array
    default_value:
      - 0
      - 1
    min_value: 0
    max_value: 255
    step: 1
    description: "HSV color lower range"
    constraints: "Can be changed"
    read_only: false
    validator: function_name2 # This is optional

  pub_cv_images:
    type: bool
    default_value: true
    description: "Activates publishers to CV images topic"
    constraints: "Only for testing"
    read_only: true
    validator: function_name1 # This is optional

  area_thr:
    type: integer
    default_value: 5000
    min_value: 1000
    max_value: 300000
    step: 1
    description: "Area threshold"
    constraints: "Cannot be zero"
    read_only: false
    validator: function_name7 # This is optional

  covariances:
    type: double_array
    default_value:
      - 0.0
      - 1.0
      - 2.0
    min_value: 0.0
    max_value: 1000.0
    step: 0.0
    description: "Covariance matrix"
    constraints: "Cannot be changed"
    read_only: true
    validator: function_name6 # This is optional

  bottom_camera_topic_name:
    type: string
    default_value: /usb_camera_driver/bottom_camera/image_rect_color
    description: "Bottom camera topic name"
    constraints: "Cannot be changed"
    read_only: true
    var_name: bottom_camera_topic_name_ # This is optional

  names:
    type: string_array
    default_value:
      - prova1
      - prova2
      - prova3
    description: "Names list"
    constraints: "Cannot be changed"
    read_only: true
    validator: function_name99 # This is optional

  bools:
    type: bool_array
    default_value:
      - true
      - false
      - false
    description: "Bool matrix"
    constraints: "Cannot be changed"
    read_only: true
    validator: function_name # This is optional
```

Only fields marked with appropriate comments in the above examples are optional, the rest are mandatory; in particular, each parameter must have a `type` and a `default_value` field, plus other mandatory field that depend on the parameter type; moreover, `var_name` must be the name of a class member variable that can, optionally, be reassigned in real time to the most up-to-date value of the parameter, so as to track it. Note that validator routine names, which can optionally be specified for each parameter, must match those that you may have defined as instructed in [Modifying the node](#modifying-the-node). The `manager_name` value must also match the name you gave to the `PManager` object in your node class, and it defaults to `pmanager_`.

The idea is that this file is going to be used by a script to automatically generate code that calls various instances of the `declare_*_parameter` from the `rclcpp` API, which constitute much of the otherwise unavoidable boilerplate code. To do so, add the following lines to your `CMakeLists.txt` file:

```cmake
# Generate parameters source code
generate_init_parameters(
  YAML_FILE "path/to/your/params.yaml"
  OUT_FILE "path/to/init_parameters.cpp")
```

which will generate an `init_parameters.cpp` file in the specified path; you must add that file to the source files of your node targets, and CMake will do the rest.

---

## License

This work is licensed under the GNU General Public License v3.0. See the [`LICENSE`](LICENSE) file for details.

## Copyright

Copyright (c) 2023, Intelligent Systems Lab, University of Rome Tor Vergata
